goal is type.disease

legalanswers are yes no *

if rest.temp.over.100 is yes
then fever is yes

question rest.temp.over.100 is 
"Has the child been resting for over an hour and his temp is greater than 100?" 

if active.temp.over.101 is yes
then fever is yes

question active.temp.over.101 is
"Has the child been active in the last hour and his temp is greater than 101?"

if clear.nasal.discharge is yes
and scratchy.throat is yes
then cold is yes

question clear.nasal.discharge is 
"Does the child have a clear nasal discharge?"

question scratchy.throat is "Does the child have a scratchy throat?"

if cold is yes
and much.cough is yes
and squeaky.breath is yes
and vibration.chest is yes
and fever is yes
then type.disease is bronchitis

question much.cough is 
"Does the child cough a lot, and cough syrup is roughly ineffective?"

question squeaky.breath is
"Does the child squeake as he breaths?"

question vibration.chest is
"Can you feel a vibration in the child's chest as he breaths?"

if high.fever is yes
and rapid.breathing is yes
and cough is yes
then type.disease is pneumonia

question high.fever is "Is the child's temperature over 103?"

question rapid.breathing is "Does the child have rapid, shallow breathing?"

question cough is "Does the child have a cough?"

if hoarse.cough is yes
and difficulty.breathing is yes
and fever is yes
and cold is yes
then type.disease is severe.croup
       
if hoarse.cough is yes
and difficulty.breathing is yes
then type.disease is croup

question hoarse.cough is "Does the child have a hoarse cough?"

question difficulty.breathing is "Does the child have difficulty breathing?"

if cough.when.move is yes
and sinus.pain is yes
then type.disease is sinusitis

question cough.when.move is 
"Does the child start coughing violently when he either lays down or gets up?"

question sinus.pain is "Does the child have any sinus pain?"

if high.fever is yes
and headache is yes
and vomiting is yes
and tonsils.swollen is yes
then type.disease is tonsillitis

question headache is "Does the child complain of headache?"

question vomiting is "Is the child vomiting?"

question tonsils.swollen is 
"Are the child's tonsils swollen with white patches on them?"

if sneeze is yes
and itchy.nose is yes
then type.disease is allergy

question sneeze is "Is the child sneezing?"

question itchy.nose is "Does the child complain of an itchy nose?"

if cold is yes
and wheezing is yes
then type.disease is asthmatic.bronchitis

question wheezing is "Is the child wheezing?"

if itching is yes
and hives.rash is yes
then type.disease is hives

question itching is "Does the child complain of itchy or scratchy skin?"

question hives.rash is 
"Does the child have raised welts that are white in color?"

if eczema is yes 
then type.disease is eczema

question eczema is
"Does the child have patches of rough, red, rash, scaly skin?"

if cold is yes
and fever is yes
and measle.rash is yes
then type.disease is measles

if measle.rash is yes
then type.disease is german.measles

question measle.rash is
"Does the child have flat pink spots on the skin?"

if pox.rash is yes
then type.disease is chicken.pox

question pox.rash is 
"Does the child's skin have separate, raised pimples, several with blisters?"

if headache is yes
and fever is yes
and vomiting is yes
and sore.throat is yes
and scarlet.rash is yes
then type.disease is scarlet.fever

question sore.throat is "Does the child have a sore throat?"

question scarlet.rash is 
"Does the child have a red blush-like rash on his skin?"

if prickly.rash is yes
then type.disease is prickly.heat

question prickly.rash is "Does the child have patches of tan-pink pimples?"

if itching is yes
and scabies.rash is yes
then type.disease is scabies

question scabies.rash is 
"Are there groups of pimples topped with scabs on the child?"

if ringworm.rash is yes
then type.disease is ringworm

question ringworm.rash is 
"Are there circular patches of rough skin on the child?"

if impetigo.rash is yes
then type.disease is impetigo

question impetigo.rash is
"Are there pimples on the child with a partly brown crust?"

if itching is yes
and ivy.rash is yes
then type.disease is poison.ivy

question ivy.rash is 
"Are there clusters of small blisters on reddened shiny skin?"

if cold is yes
and delayed.cough is yes
then type.disease is whooping.cough

question delayed.cough is 
"Did the child start coughing about one week after getting the cold?"

if neck.swelling is yes
then type.disease is mumps

question neck.swelling is
"Does the child have extensive swelling in the side of his neck?"

if sore.throat is yes
and fever is yes
and dirty.white.patches is yes
then type.disease is diptheria

question dirty.white.patches is
"Does the child have dirty white patches on his tonsils?"

if fever is yes
and headache is yes
and touch.to.chest is yes
then type.disease is anterior.poliomyelitis

question touch.to.chest is
"Is it impossible for the child to touch his chin to his chest?"

if fatigue is yes
and fever is yes
and cough is yes
and sputum is yes
then type.disease is tuberculosis

question fatigue is "Does the child complain of general fatigue?"

question sputum is "Is the child producing sputum?"

if fever is yes
and fatigue is yes
and tender.joints is yes
then type.disease is rheumatic.fever

question tender.joints is "Does the child complain of tender joints?"

if nervous.disease is yes
then type.disease is chorea

question nervous.disease is
"Does the child have twitching or writhing movements in DIFFERENT places?"

if naval.pain is yes
and tender.abdomen is yes
then type.disease is appendicitis

question naval.pain is
"Has the child complained of pain around his naval for several hours?"

question tender.abdomen is
"Does the child have a tender abdomen on the right side?"

if inflammed.ears is yes
and fever is yes
then type.disease is serious.ear.infection

if inflammed.ears is yes
then type.disease is ear.infection

question inflammed.ears is "Does the child have inflammed ears?"

if high.fever is yes
then type.disease is roseola

answer is "Based on rudimentary knowledge, I believe the child has 
" 
type.disease
